- **Default:** `['browser', 'module', 'jsnext:main', 'jsnext']`
Vite uses [esbuild defines](https://esbuild.github.io/api/#define) to perform replacements, so value expressions must be a string that contains a JSON-serializable value (null, boolean, number, string, array, or object) or a single identifier. For non-string values, Vite will automatically convert it to a string with `JSON.stringify`.
**Example:**
```js
export default defineConfig({
  define: {
    __APP_VERSION__: JSON.stringify('v1.0.0'),
    __API_URL__: 'window.__backend_api_url',
  },
})
```

## future

- **Type:** `Record<string, 'warn' | undefined>`
- **Related:** [Breaking Changes](/changes/)

Enable future breaking changes to prepare for a smooth migration to the next major version of Vite. The list may be updated, added, or removed at any time as new features are developed.

See the [Breaking Changes](/changes/) page for details of the possible options.
## oxc
- **Type:** `OxcOptions | false`
`OxcOptions` extends [Oxc Transformer's options](https://oxc.rs/docs/guide/usage/transformer). The most common use case is customizing JSX:
  oxc: {
    jsx: {
      runtime: 'classic',
      pragma: 'h',
      pragmaFrag: 'Fragment',
    },
By default, transformation by Oxc is applied to `ts`, `jsx` and `tsx` files. You can customize this with `oxc.include` and `oxc.exclude`, which can be a regex, a [picomatch](https://github.com/micromatch/picomatch#globbing-features) pattern, or an array of either.
In addition, you can also use `oxc.jsxInject` to automatically inject JSX helper imports for every file transformed by Oxc:
  oxc: {
Set to `false` to disable transformation by Oxc.

## esbuild

- **Type:** `ESBuildOptions | false`
- **Deprecated**
This option is converted to `oxc` option internally. Use `oxc` option instead.
Vite uses [Oxc's define feature](https://oxc.rs/docs/guide/usage/transformer/global-variable-replacement#define) to perform replacements, so value expressions must be a string that contains a JSON-serializable value (null, boolean, number, string, array, or object) or a single identifier. For non-string values, Vite will automatically convert it to a string with `JSON.stringify`.
<!-- TODO: we need to have a more detailed explanation here as we no longer use @rollup/plugin-alias. we should say it's compatible with it though -->

## resolve.tsconfigPaths

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `false`

Enables the tsconfig paths resolution feature. `paths` option in `tsconfig.json` will be used to resolve imports. See [Features](/guide/features.md#paths) for more details.

::: tip Importing files
Since the same code is prepended to files in different directories, relative paths won't resolve correctly. Use absolute paths or [aliases](#resolve-alias) instead.
:::

Defines aliases used to replace values in `import` or `require` statements. This works similar to [`@rollup/plugin-alias`](https://github.com/rollup/plugins/tree/master/packages/alias).
The order of the entries is important, in that the first defined rules are applied first.
### Object Format (`Record<string, string>`)

The Object format allows specifying aliases as a key, and the corresponding value as the actual import value. For example:

```js
resolve: {
  alias: {
    utils: '../../../utils',
    'batman-1.0.0': './joker-1.5.0'
  }
}
```

### Array Format (`Array<{ find: string | RegExp, replacement: string, customResolver?: ResolverFunction | ResolverObject }>`)

The Array format allows specifying aliases as objects, which can be useful for complex key/value pairs.

```js
resolve: {
  alias: [
    { find: 'utils', replacement: '../../../utils' },
    { find: 'batman-1.0.0', replacement: './joker-1.5.0' },
  ]
}
```

When `find` is a regular expression, the `replacement` can use [replacement patterns](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/replace#specifying_a_string_as_the_replacement), such as `$1`. For example, to remove extensions with another, a pattern like the following might be used:

```js
{ find:/^(.*)\.js$/, replacement: '$1.alias' }
```

`customResolver` option can be used to provide separate module resolution for an individual alias.

Directory to save cache files. Files in this directory are pre-bundled deps or some other cache files generated by vite, which can improve the performance. You can use `--force` flag or manually delete the directory to regenerate the cache files. The value can be either an absolute file system path or a path relative to project root. Default to `.vite` when no `package.json` is detected.
## devtools

- **Experimental:** [Give Feedback](https://github.com/vitejs/devtools/discussions)
- **Type:** `boolean` | `DevToolsConfig`
  `Record<string, string> | Array<{ find: string | RegExp, replacement: string }>`

Enable devtools integration for visualizing the internal state and build analysis.
Ensure that `@vitejs/devtools` is installed as a dependency. This feature is currently supported only in build mode.

See [Vite DevTools](https://github.com/vitejs/devtools) for more details.

### Array Format (`Array<{ find: string | RegExp, replacement: string }>`)
In addition, the `style` condition is applied when resolving style imports, e.g. `@import 'my-library'`. For some CSS pre-processors, their corresponding conditions are also applied, i.e. `sass` for Sass and `less` for Less.
